API directory publishing instructions (#43)
bcgov/aps-infra-platform: documentation/resources/api-discovery.md

!!!info
Think of `datasets` as API metadata records.
!!!

Clicking on the API name opens the full API listing details.
![BC Route Planner API listing details](assets/api-directory-listing.png)

Here, additional metadata details defined in the `dataset` are visible, as well as the associated product(s) which consumers can request access to.

!!!info
`products` bundle one or more gateway services which are protected in the same way. They are used to manage consumer access.
!!!

## Sharing Your API

API Listings in the Directory can be created and managed via:

- **Command Line Interface (CLI)**: See the [Quick Start guide](../guides/owner-journey.md) for instructions on downloading the CLI and logging in.
- **Directory API**: Go to [Gateway Administration](../resources/gateway-admin.md#directory-api) for links to the Directory API specs and Swagger UI.
- **Web user interface (UI)**: Visit the [API Services Portal](https://api.gov.bc.ca/) and login to the API Provider zone.

!!! API Services Portal web UI limitations
At this time, not all steps required to create an API listing are possible through the web UI. We recommend using the CLI.
!!!

### Environments

> All API Directory functionality is available in the `test` environment. Feel free to create an API listing there before adding to the production Directory.

Author: Looking at all our current docs (excluding Owner Journey v1, which should maybe be deprecated) the only places the test env is used are the JWT auth docs and QSG (otherwise it's always tables which also list prod).
Should we be pointing to test more often in our code samples? Or conversely, should we continue not pointing to test (except maybe really basic tutorials like the QSG?)

How about:
```suggestion
All API Directory functionality is accessible in both the `test` and `production` environments. While you are encouraged to utilize the `test` environment for experimentation and training purposes, if you already know the details of the API you're building, you can add it directly to the production Directory.
```
It's a little longwinded but eh. 
Otherwise could cut the second sentence to just:
```
Use the `test` environment to experiment.
```

| Environment     | API Services Portal Directory Link                               |
| --------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| TEST / TRAINING | https://api-gov-bc-ca.test.api.gov.bc.ca/devportal/api-directory |
| PRODUCTION      | https://api.gov.bc.ca/devportal/api-directory                    |

### Setup a Draft Dataset

First, we need a draft dataset with metadata about your API. This information helps consumers find your API in the Directory. If your API is already listed in the [BC Data Catalogue](https://catalogue.data.gov.bc.ca/), skip ahead to [Link Your Dataset to a Product](#link-your-dataset-to-a-product).

Start by writing up a draft dataset in a local YAML file (if using the CLI) or JSON file (if using the API). Here is the schema, omitting some optional fields:

> +++ YAML Template (w/ field descriptions)

Author: One way to find out! Bring into dev.mvp and see what we get?
 
It would be nice to avoid much custom html, though might be an option. If the tabs don't work and there's no easy solution we can split and just list one after the other.  :/

record_publish_date: "2021-05-27" # date when the API was published
```
+++ YAML Template
```yaml
kind: DraftDataset
name: my-draft-dataset
title: Useful API
notes: A handy API with many uses
tags: [useful, data, openapi]
organization: ministry-of-citizens-services
organizationUnit: databc
license_title: Open Government Licence - British Columbia
view_audience: Government
security_class: PUBLIC
record_publish_date: "2021-05-27"
```
+++ JSON Template
```json
{
  "name": "my-draft-dataset",
  "title": "Useful API",
  "notes": "A handy API with many uses",
  "tags": [
    "useful",
    "data",
    "openapi"
  ],
  "organization": "ministry-of-citizens-services",
  "organizationUnit": "databc",
  "license_title": "Open Government Licence - British Columbia",
  "view_audience": "Government",
  "security_class": "PUBLIC",
  "record_publish_date": "2021-05-27"
}
```
+++

Check our [source code](https://github.com/bcgov/api-services-portal/blob/dev/src/batch/data-rules.js#L116) for up-to-date data rules for `DraftDatasets`.

Now it's time to publish the dataset:

+++ CLI
1. Login - `gwa login`
2. Set the namespace - `gwa config set namespace <namespace-name>`

> 3. Publish the draft dataset - `gwa apply -i <draft-dataset.yaml`

Author: In a subsequent commit I had modified to `gwa apply -i <draft-dataset.yaml>` (same convention I used throughout). 
Is it better to eliminate the angle brackets `< >` across the board when it comes to placeholders for arbitrary filenames? (and no filename is suggested or set by previous commands)

2. Click `Help` in the top right, then `API Docs` to open the [Swagger UI](https://api.gov.bc.ca/ds/api/v2/console/).
3. Under API Directory, click the `PUT /namespaces/{ns}/datasets` [Update Dataset](https://api.gov.bc.ca/ds/api/v2/console/#/API%20Directory/put-dataset) accordion item.
4. Click `Try it out`
5. Enter your namespace
6. Copy your JSON `dataset` into the Request body
7. Click `Execute`
8. Scroll down and ensure a `200` Response was received
+++

### Link Your Dataset to a Product

If you've already worked through the [Quick Start guide](../guides/owner-journey.md) or set up a gateway service, you may already have a `product`. In this case, we can associate the `product` with a `dataset`:

1. Open the [Products](https://api.gov.bc.ca/manager/products) page in the API Services Portal.
2. Click the ellipsis (`...`) next to `Add Env`, select `Edit Product`.
3. Customize the `Product Name`, if desired.
4. In the `Link to BC Data Catalogue` dialogue, enter the `title` of your newly created, or existing BCDC, dataset.
!!!
Search is exact. Be mindful of spaces and case.
!!!
5. Click Update.

> Preview your new API listing by opening the API Directory and clicking the **Your Products** tab.

Author: Also outdated as I made a small update to this line and included an image of card. 
How about:
```suggestion
Preview your new API listing by opening the API Directory and clicking the **Your Products** tab. In addition to confirming the dataset details, you can also try test out **Request Access** and the consumer access management flow. See (API Access)[api-access.md] for how to set up access approvals.
```
btw approvals are slick!
